---
title: china
---

The last time I went to China before this past trip was 2016, about 8 years ago. At that point, I was still young, so I never picked up on the subtleties and interesting dynamics of Chinese society. The most striking one I observed this past trip was that China is a lesson in contrast. China is not a tokenizable experience, nor is it a homogenous one. Things that should be in opposition do in fact thrive hand-in-hand, which makes for a complex and interesting society. Here are some anecdotes:

1. Older generation vs. younger generation. Many of the older generation grew up in pre-market economics society (e.g. cultural revolution times), and are heavily influenced by their experiences there. They're the boats that have risen with the tide. I've literally overheard (normal) folks saying that now they're retired, they have too much money that they can't invest and just need to spend it on luxury goods or expensive foreign travel. There's also a hyper-rich new generation, the heirs to tycoon fortunes, who look down on the old guard and normal society and desperately pretend to be greater than Chinese, traveling and studying in places like France and the UK. Then there's the ordinary younger generation, which is stuck under the burden of 9-9-6 and the impossibility of achieving the same level of success as their parents. They don't even and can't even travel much, to the degree that fellow travelers thought I was weird for being able to go out on a vacation within China "out-of-season".
2. Old tradition vs. the new China. Everywhere you look, there's an interplay between old traditional buildings, and the glittering new skyscrapers and neon lights. As is the case with most developed countries, there's been a huge resurgence in interest in traditional architecture and remodeling old buildings into trendy new shops or houses. What's unique to China, thought, is the liberal usage of lights to highlight and frame the gorgeous structure of traditional buildings. Things look serene during the day, and glow with a cyberpunk energy at night.
3. Tourism infrastructure. Roads and trains and airports are so good in China that all these gorgoeus natural attractions are so easy to access. This lets a much larger population experience the beauty of nature, but the contrast is that the natural beauty is quite literally crowded out by the sheer volume of people. I found myself bizarrely thinking that if Chinese infrastructure were worse, the resulting experiences would be so much nicer.
4. Chains and businesses. I was struck by the number of amazing new chains in China (I love love love love love Chagee and Luckin Coffee), and how it contrasts with little holes in the wall serving traditional food, and older and grander classical restaurants. It seems like a thriving business culture where the old and the new can meet. There's a preservation of tradition, but there's also a very real sense of movement and exploration in the culinary world.
5. Fashion status games. China is interesting because as a manufacturing hub, they actually produce a lot of clothing for the rest of the world. This includes both famous high-quality brands, as well as their legendary fakes. What results is a rapidly iterating fashion status game. Previously, if you were a person with means, famous brands were the only way to distinguish yourself, so that's why Chinese people love them so much. Now, however, a lot more people are able to afford them or can find good fakes, so the status game has iterated towards less branding and instead more of a focus on the quality and style of the product. This was apparent when I was in Guangzhou next to some wholesale markets, and I found that they were making a lot of high-quality fashionable clothing for Korean boutiques. I wonder how this will evolve as wholesale markets continue to increase their quality and variety. Will categorical status games become moot, or will they just continue to grow more eccentric and niche?
6. Perceptions of the CCP. I was visiting a tourism site which featured a set of cultural performances, organized by a group that I think is sponsored by the CCP. The resulting performance was pretty good, to be honest, but featured some over-the-top narratives centered around the heroics of the People's Liberation Army during a disaster (the soldiers quite literally became a flying bridge to evacuate people). I found the existence of such blatant propaganda to be a bit jarring, especially given the enthusiasm with which it was received by some of the older generation. It seems like the younger generation found it a bit comical though, because I literally overheard a group of people my age leaving the theater saying "what a joke".
