---
title: fulfilling travel
---

I've been thinking a lot about my recent trip to New Zealand, and the difference between the feelings I expected and the ones I had. At the center of it all is the question, "what do I want out of travel"? I don't think it's a question that most people really deeply consider, and it goes beyond the simplicity of "what vibe do I want to feel". For me, it's fulfillment in placing yourself in a completely different context than I'm used to — stretching muscles I've forgotten about, and living what is essentially a completely different life.

In my recent trip to New Zealand, I didn't come away with the feeling I wanted even though it was an amazing trip — I did one of the Great Walks (Kepler, an awesome experience, and my first time backpacking!), cave river tubing, kayaking in Milford Sound, etc. But it wasn't as deep of an experience as I was expecting, especially in the context of other transformative trips I've taken in the past. A large part of that is because I wasn't completely immersed, bought into the new environment, the way I have been during study abroad (cultural immersion) and solo travel (living in myself + cherishing every small human interaction).

I'm reminded of [this great quote from James Suzman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P4SDBVaUboc) where he describes an important experience for most people that is, unfortunately, becoming more fleeting — to "experience another way of living and being to the point that it makes the strange familiar, and the familiar strange". That's one of the most visceral impacts of great travel. Is there a way to dip into that in shorter trips — chatting with strangers, leaning into uncomfortable situations, reaching out of the bubble of leisure we expect and hold on to? Or is it, ironically, [to expect and plan less](https://qz.com/quartzy/1633181/the-key-to-a-perfect-summer-is-making-absolutely-zero-plans), and therefore more greatly cherish every unexpected delight?
