- map prediction and building intuition on top of systems

  - While I was waiting for the Muni tram at Dolores Park, I realized something: different terrain features can dramatically change how one should interpret the predicted arrival times of a train. Before the J line hits Dolores Park, there are several curves. These tend to underestimate the time that public transportation will take to arrive, since the train is likely to go slower than the predicted straight-line speed. Meanwhile, after Dolores Park, the J line merges into Market and goes into several tunnels. Tunnels tend to actually overestimate the time that public transportation will take to arrive, since signals from the tunnel tend to be delayed and/or spotty, causing guesses with stale (artificially late) data.

  - This is probably accounted for in sophisticated mapping algorithms, but it's possible that the Muni system reports its own arrival times and is not sophisticated enough to handle these cases. In any case, I've personally benefitted from incorporating these intuitions on top of the existing system, such as with the J line. Sometimes I think I won't be able to make the train, but even though I sometimes start 50% of the way into my allocated walking time, I do regularly end up making the line. Accounting for these factors qualitatively improves my life by letting me take the chance of making a train when otherwise I might have just given up. There's probably other types of intuitions on top of other systems that can yield similar benefits.

- china

  - The last time I went to China before this past trip was 2016, about 8 years ago. At that point, I was still young, so I never picked up on the subtleties and interesting dynamics of Chinese society. The most striking one I observed this past trip was that China is a lesson in contrast. China is not a tokenizable experience, nor is it a homogenous one. Things that should be in opposition do in fact thrive hand-in-hand, which makes for a complex and interesting society. Here are some anecdotes:

  - 1. Older generation vs. younger generation. Many of the older generation grew up in pre-market economics society (e.g. cultural revolution times), and are heavily influenced by their experiences there. They're the boats that have risen with the tide. I've literally overheard (normal) folks saying that now they're retired, they have too much money that they can't invest and just need to spend it on luxury goods or expensive foreign travel. There's also a hyper-rich new generation, the heirs to tycoon fortunes, who look down on the old guard and normal society and desperately pretend to be greater than Chinese, traveling and studying in places like France and the UK. Then there's the ordinary younger generation, which is stuck under the burden of 9-9-6 and the impossibility of achieving the same level of success as their parents. They don't even and can't even travel much, to the degree that fellow travelers thought I was weird for being able to go out on a vacation within China "out-of-season".
    2. Old tradition vs. the new China. Everywhere you look, there's an interplay between old traditional buildings, and the glittering new skyscrapers and neon lights. As is the case with most developed countries, there's been a huge resurgence in interest in traditional architecture and remodeling old buildings into trendy new shops or houses. What's unique to China, thought, is the liberal usage of lights to highlight and frame the gorgeous structure of traditional buildings. Things look serene during the day, and glow with a cyberpunk energy at night.
    3. Tourism infrastructure. Roads and trains and airports are so good in China that all these gorgoeus natural attractions are so easy to access. This lets a much larger population experience the beauty of nature, but the contrast is that the natural beauty is quite literally crowded out by the sheer volume of people. I found myself bizarrely thinking that if Chinese infrastructure were worse, the resulting experiences would be so much nicer.
    4. Chains and businesses. I was struck by the number of amazing new chains in China (I love love love love love Chagee and Luckin Coffee), and how it contrasts with little holes in the wall serving traditional food, and older and grander classical restaurants. It seems like a thriving business culture where the old and the new can meet. There's a preservation of tradition, but there's also a very real sense of movement and exploration in the culinary world.
    5. Fashion status games. China is interesting because as a manufacturing hub, they actually produce a lot of clothing for the rest of the world. This includes both famous high-quality brands, as well as their legendary fakes. What results is a rapidly iterating fashion status game. Previously, if you were a person with means, famous brands were the only way to distinguish yourself, so that's why Chinese people love them so much. Now, however, a lot more people are able to afford them or can find good fakes, so the status game has iterated towards less branding and instead more of a focus on the quality and style of the product. This was apparent when I was in Guangzhou next to some wholesale markets, and I found that they were making a lot of high-quality fashionable clothing for Korean boutiques. I wonder how this will evolve as wholesale markets continue to increase their quality and variety. Will categorical status games become moot, or will they just continue to grow more eccentric and niche?
    6. Perceptions of the CCP. I was visiting a tourism site which featured a set of cultural performances, organized by a group that I think is sponsored by the CCP. The resulting performance was pretty good, to be honest, but featured some over-the-top narratives centered around the heroics of the People's Liberation Army during a disaster (the soldiers quite literally became a flying bridge to evacuate people). I found the existence of such blatant propaganda to be a bit jarring, especially given the enthusiasm with which it was received by some of the older generation. It seems like the younger generation found it a bit comical though, because I literally overheard a group of people my age leaving the theater saying "what a joke".

- the suitcase index

  - I was just in China and was struck by the experience of just being able to roll my suitcase from my house in one city to the hotel in another, without it really ever leaving my hands. In the US, this is totally a foreign idea, as suitcases leave our hands almost at every junction. The car ride from the house to the airport, the security checkpoints, the carry on overhead bins, the car ride in the last mile, etc. China was different because public transportation and high-speed rail makes it so easy to just roll it continuously to the endpoint. I call this in my head the suitcase index, indicating the percentage of time that a suitcase can be in your hands or easily accessible, which is a proxy for the quality and dominance of the public infrastructure.

- forever clothing

  - For a long time, I've been obsessed with the idea of timeless fashion. The idea of not being pulled around by the latest trend is very gravitating. In the past this meant that I focused only on high-quality basics and styles that have withstood the test of time, which I thought allowed me to remain above the trends. Through my recent dives deeper into fashion, however, I've realized that I feel at my best when what I wear takes what's good from the trend while also reflecting fundamental aspects of myself. As an example, I've been diving more into streetwear recently, and I still don't necessarily like the anarchic or overly edgy aspects of streetwear (this clashes with my personality). However, I love the way streetwear plays with form and silhouettes, and how streetwear can be both presentable and expressive while being non-conforming.

  - Clearly, I've been missing several absolutely critical aspects to my fashion sense — creativity and self-expression, which I'm sure is obvious to anybody with fashion sense. My perspective now is that once I can find any core kernel of who I am and can match it with dress, then it's also a timeless piece _for me_. Here's some qualities that "forever clothing" should have in my eyes:

  - 1. Accent my personal good physical qualities, and obscure bad ones.
    2. Avoid being trendy while taking inspiration from the trend.
    3. Convey aspects of who I am (especially if they aren't apparent).

  - To belong, a piece must excel in at least 2 of the above principles and at least not violate the remaining condition. My fashion goal is now to find more of these pieces and build a wardrobe that captures these ideas.

- mindful indulgence

  - I recently was chatting with a new friend who had a transformative experience at a Vipassana meditation retreat, and I started thinking a lot about my own habits and forms of relaxation, and how I don't necessarily feel the most relaxed or satisfied when I just indulge cravings. In contrast, I'm much more fulfilled when I'm deliberate in enjoying things instead of just mindlessly giving in without agency. This doesn't mean necessarily always holding out (although I'm guilty of enjoying the satisfaction of doing that too, e.g. with eating bland salads without dressing). Instead it means occasionally taking the time to put in more effort, focus, & dive into the enjoyment of things that give me pleasure. That includes indulging, ironically — if I want to eat something sweet, I don't just eat it and be done with it. I can savor it and turn it into an entire experience.

- infinite detail

  - As we grow older and see more things, our brains add neural shortcuts that
    template experiences and reduce their emotional impact. This is why we don't
    appreciate a scene nearly as much the third time, as the first. The best
    way I've found to combat this is to force myself to pay attention to
    details, such as when you paint. Even if you just sit down and stare, it's
    so hard to notice the details of the texture of the leaves on the trees, and
    the rock, and the sea. My goal is to carry a tool to zero in on the present
    whenever I'm traveling, whether that's a tiny watercolor book, a camera,
    or a little poetry notebook.

- the lever under the world

  - We live in an age where we, as technologists, have the most individual power and leverage to move the world in the history of humanity. It's absolutely amazing to be alive right now. Where are all the people who are interested in working on our most challening problems in construction, climate, government, etc?

- subconscious

  - I've always been really happy with how much I understand and rely on my instincts and subconscious. To me, there's a huge difference between working with / trusting / relying upon your subconscious patterns of thought, and being driven by your feelings. The former involves using millennia of honed machinery to get insights derived from accumulated minute subconscious details, which are distinct from what your logical brain can notice and are really valuable. It also runs on its own, which is great since it doesnt require much effort. However, because these patterns are driven by emotional / instinctive machinery that might not apply to a given situation, understanding how your subconscious works and where it is designed to be effective is critical to applying its insights effectively. That's why the latter (being entirely driven by feelings) is bad — you divorce your decision entirely from logic.

- inversion of banality

  - The way "the other" is depicted in fantasy games, movies, and art can be so much more sophisticated and interesting. The basic template nowadays is to depict "evil" as something clearly alien, such as with architectures of bone and tattered canvas / hide (or brutalist black stone/steel, think Mordor). But the best antagonists are those with nuance, subvert expectations, or rely on the flawed perspectives of the protagonists. It should be the same when it comes to artistic depictions of evil in fantasy. I was recently looking at [some examples of traditional architecture in Guizhou](https://www.instagram.com/p/Cjz71ckKgQO/?igshid=YmMyMTA2M2Y=), and there was this strange perspective shift in my head, where I suddenly saw wood architecture as effectively massacring trees and building (with their dead bodies) incredibly elegant structures. This was interesting because it was one of those situations where something I've been trying to do more — seeing "more clearly" — led to a complete inversion of experience of something totally normal. Inducing these more subtle senses of unease reliably would be amazing, since we would have to reconcile a clear aesthetic appreciation of beauty with something slightly unsettling.

- complete mental snapshots

  - Capturing the quintessential essence of thoughts / attitudes / beliefs to remember far into the future is actually very difficult. It isn't as simple as writing thoughts down — there's underlying modes of perception and belief systems that change over time, and to fully contextualize thoughts you need to capture that hidden essence as well.

  - For example, a few years ago I wrote this down: "Most of people's time is spent inventing things to do, in order to avoid doing important work that they're dreading." This feels like a vague truism, but I have no idea as to what prompted this thought (and what made it feel like such an important insight at that point in my life, that I wrote it down). It's pretty evident that looking at that quote, the real thought to note down was buried at the intersection between those words, and the specific circumstance in my life that made that idea critically important. But I don't have any recollection of that anymore, and none of that contextualizing information has been written down. I've recently become more interested in capturing those ideas more completely.

- fulfilling travel

  - I've been thinking a lot about my recent trip to New Zealand, and the difference between the feelings I expected and the ones I had. At the center of it all is the question, "what do I want out of travel"? I don't think it's a question that most people really deeply consider, and it goes beyond the simplicity of "what vibe do I want to feel". For me, it's fulfillment in placing yourself in a completely different context than I'm used to — stretching muscles I've forgotten about, and living what is essentially a completely different life.

  - In my recent trip to New Zealand, I didn't come away with the feeling I wanted even though it was an amazing trip — I did one of the Great Walks (Kepler, an awesome experience, and my first time backpacking!), cave river tubing, kayaking in Milford Sound, etc. But it wasn't as deep of an experience as I was expecting, especially in the context of other transformative trips I've taken in the past. A large part of that is because I wasn't completely immersed, bought into the new environment, the way I have been during study abroad (cultural immersion) and solo travel (living in myself + cherishing every small human interaction).

  - I'm reminded of [this great quote from James Suzman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P4SDBVaUboc) where he describes an important experience for most people that is, unfortunately, becoming more fleeting — to "experience another way of living and being to the point that it makes the strange familiar, and the familiar strange". That's one of the most visceral impacts of great travel. Is there a way to dip into that in shorter trips — chatting with strangers, leaning into uncomfortable situations, reaching out of the bubble of leisure we expect and hold on to? Or is it, ironically, [to expect and plan less](https://qz.com/quartzy/1633181/the-key-to-a-perfect-summer-is-making-absolutely-zero-plans), and therefore more greatly cherish every unexpected delight?

- microblog

  - Doesn't [Udara's microblog](https://udara.io/microblog/) seem a bit familiar? I'm a huge fan of noting down small thoughts, so I copied his format (it's perfect for me)! Also, his post on [reinventing his blog](https://udara.io/reinventing-this-blog) contains some really interesting ideas (e.g. Zettelkästen) that I've never seen before.

- soaring

  - After my recent health scare, there's been this large fundamental shift in my feelings on exercise. I've read for a long time about how exercise is [a celebration](https://external-preview.redd.it/VDPvosbeTFKlG1CXSzynW6L-ifguJBMw8TFBeshnX68.jpg?auto=webp&s=88c3da021cc0f3003992ddc6e5904221ceb0c119) of what I can do, not a punishment required to maintain my health. But there's always a disconnect between rationally knowing and emotionally embracing an idea. Once I felt what I thought were the limitations of my body, I finally felt that click in my mind. It's such a beautiful feeling to move and feel so alive when I do.

- cottagecore

  - I've been obsessed with the idea of product and livestock variants for a while now, and I've been thinking about how amazing it'd be to own a farm where all the produce are variants from before the early 1900s breeding programs (e.g. actual heirloom tomatoes and heritage-breed chickens). Even though crops have been "genetically modified" (phenotypes selected for by people) throughout all of history, I suspect the historical selection criteria for a "good plant" was much more holistic than ours in the modern-day (e.g. biasing primarily towards taste rather than superficial optics and size).

  - On that note, I don't know why people don't do restaurant versions of [Tasting History](https://www.youtube.com/@TastingHistory) — I would love to go to a restaurant specializing in ancient Roman, Chinese or [indigenous](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ocm6DRIF9oU&t=1s) food.
