- Perfect travel is so personal. I recently went to New Zealand, and came away slightly dissatisfied even though it was an amazing trip — I did one of the Great Walks (Kepler, an thrilling experience), cave diving, kayaking in Milford Sound, etc. But it wasn't, for some reason, as deep of an experience as I was expecting, especially in the context of other transformative trips I've taken in the past. I feel like it's because I wasn't completely immersed, subsumed into the different environment, the way I have been during study abroad (cultural immersion) and solo travel (living in myself + cherishing every small human interaction). I'm reminded of [this great quote from a video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P4SDBVaUboc) where James Suzman describes an important experience for most people that is, unfortunately, becoming more fleeting — to "experience another way of living and being to the point that it makes the strange familiar, and the familiar strange". That's one of the most visceral impacts of great travel, and that's something I never got this time around. How do people dip into that during shorter trips — do they put themselves in more uncomfortable situations, reach out of the bubble of leisure we expect and impose on ourselves? Or is it, ironically, [to expect and plan less](https://qz.com/quartzy/1633181/the-key-to-a-perfect-summer-is-making-absolutely-zero-plans), and therefore more greatly cherish every unexpected delight?
- We live in an age where we, as technologists, have the most individual power and leverage to move the world in the history of humanity. It's absolutely amazing to be alive right now. Where are all the people who are interested in working on all these cool problems in construction, climate, government, etc?
- There's no way to appreciate a scene and pay attention to as many details as you do when you paint. Even if you just sit down and stare, it's so hard to notice the details of the texture of the leaves on the trees, and the rock, and the sea. I should carry a tool to zero in on the present whenever I'm traveling, whether that's a tiny watercolor book, a camera, or a little poetry notebook.
- There's a huge distinction between working with / trusting / relying upon your subconscious patterns of thought, and being driven by your feelings. The former generates insights derived from accumulated subconscious / minute details, which are distinct from what your logical brain notices and therefore can be hugely valuable. It also incidentally requires very little active attention, which is great since effort expended is always a constant O(1). However, because these patterns are driven by emotional / instinctive machinery that might not apply to a given situation, understanding how your subconscious works is critical to applying its insights effectively. That's why the latter (being entirely driven by feelings) should be avoided — it's divorced from logic and can drive bad decisions.
- Why do modern day games, movies, and art tend to depict "evil" with "barbaric" architectures of bone and tattered canvas / hide (or brutalist black stone/steel, think Mordor)? It's so incredibly basic. I was recently [looking at this Insta post](https://www.instagram.com/p/Cjz71ckKgQO/?igshid=YmMyMTA2M2Y=), and there was this strange perspective shift in my head, where I suddenly saw wood architecture as effectively massacring trees and building (with their dead bodies) incredibly aesthetic, beautiful structures. There should be an interesting parallel here with elegant yet dark architectures in film / concept art (e.g. gleaming ivory towers of bone, or flowering "living" buildings). The result would likely be a very uneasy horror, since we would have to reconcile a clear aesthetic appreciation of beauty with something utterly amoral. A few films skirt around this idea, like Annihilation.
- Capturing the quintessential essence of thoughts / attitudes / beliefs to remember far into the future is actually very difficult. It isn't as simple as writing thoughts down — there's underlying modes of perception and belief systems that change over time, and to fully contextualize thoughts you need to capture that hidden essence as well.
- What a cool microblog: https://udara.io/microblog/. Also his post on [reinventing his blog](https://udara.io/reinventing-this-blog) contain some really interesting ideas (e.g. Zettelkästen) that I've never seen before. Love meta-level learning!
- Exercise is [a celebration](https://external-preview.redd.it/VDPvosbeTFKlG1CXSzynW6L-ifguJBMw8TFBeshnX68.jpg?auto=webp&s=88c3da021cc0f3003992ddc6e5904221ceb0c119) of what you can do, not a punishment required to maintain your body. Never realized this until I had some health scares!
- I'd love to own a farm where all the produce variants are from before the 1940s breeding programs (e.g. actual heirloom tomatoes and heritage-breed chickens). Even though all crops nowadays have been "genetically modified" (phenotypes selected for by people), I suspect the historical selection criteria for a "good plant" was much more holistic than those in the modern-day.
